Hello and welcome back to the advanced course on our programming.
In today's tutorial we talk about resetting the doorframe index.
Now what I want to draw your attention to was that in the previous tutorial we deleted some rows from
our daughter frame.
So if you scroll up to the top you will see that we have removed rows 14 and 15.
They're not here at the same time.
The I.D. will obviously they doesn't change because the ID is the associate of the company.
So this is this company's IDs 6 this company's IDs 7 and so on.
There could have been a hundred and or hundred thousand and 100000 to it's just a number that is coded
to the company.
But then on the left here you see the row numbers are in fact these are the real names for this data
for it.
And what happened here is that when we deleted these two rows of 14 and 15 the name of the rows with
their main rows did in a.
Just so you can see 12 12 13 16 17.
So if you go to the bottom you'll see that looks like we still have 500 rows where in fact we only have
400 98 and that is something that happens in our Because in fact these aren't row numbers these are
row names.
They are associated with the rows.
And unlike in excel in are these numbers don't change so in Excel if you go here if I were to delete
these two rows I'd just remove them.
You will see that the ID's have been kept for the companies but then these numbers on the left here
they don't change so they basically they have well they have been adjusted for these are these rows
have moved up in the order.
So I'm going to cancel that.
I'm going to return these rows in are.
That doesn't happen so once we removed 14:15 these numbers also disappear.
And that is because these are names of the rows rather than like in Excel they're just a framework of
the program that you're working in.
And how do we fix that.
So the question is first of all do we want to fix that.
And if we do then how the answer in your question if we want to is entirely up to you whether you for
your analysis require that to be changed whether for aesthetic reasons you would want to actually keep
the correct number numeration here or maybe the opposite you might be relying on this name maybe you
don't have an ID column and you are relying on this name to pick out the reason you wanted to change
you wanted to be associated with the same row all the time regardless of how you filter how you reorder
your doorframe.
So it really depends on you.
In this trial I'm just going to show you how to do it because if you do need to do it then this knowledge
will come in handy.
All right.
So how do we fix up their own names.
It's very simple.
We've got our data set.
You can tell everything is actually very simple once we go through it.
Our isn't like at this stage it's not that hard.
We're not doing anything complex in our it's just a matter of knowing these concepts.
So here we've got our data set fin and we've got names of Finn which is a vector with the names.
And as we know we can basically assign anything into this vector we can give them names like actual
character names or like we can what we can do is we can just find out how many rows we have in our data
frame and then apply that so we can say 1 2 and we don't know how many rows we have but what we do is
for 498.
But the fastest way to count them is and row of finish.
So this will give you the actual number of rows you have 498.
This will give you a vector from 1 to 498 and this will assign that vector to the names of your rows
.
If I run that you will see that it's 498 here.
So that's one of the approaches and I'm going to show you a quick tip or like a hack to this approach
which is much faster.
So let's quickly use our backup to restore fin.
Right so fin comes from the back up just to redo this exercise.
Remove that now.
And if I run all of this right now.
Now I look at fin you'll see that one again this is set to 500 and the fastest way to fix this up is
just to go row names fin is null.
And now if we look at fin you'll see that they have been reset.
So basically we're emptying out the names of the rows were completely telling are to reset the row names
and by default it will reset them to this anyway.
So this is just a faster way to reset your road names to the correct enumeration.
Once again it's a it's really a decision up to you as an analyst or a scientist whether or not you want
to do that.
OK.
So there we go that's us for this tutorial.
And I look forward to your next step.
Until then happy coding.